YO U R F I R S T P RO G R A M             25
      EXPERT TIPS
 Rerunning programs
 When you’re building a program, you need to run the code
 frequently to check for bugs. To save time, you can press the
 Up arrow key in Command Prompt or Terminal to see your
 recent commands. You can then press Enter to run one of
 them again. If your game is still running, you need to close it
 before rerunning your code. If you don’t, nothing will happen!



Running your program using IDLE
It’s possible to run your Pygame Zero programs using IDLE. To do
this you need to add two extra lines to your code. It’s a good idea to
wait until you have finish writing your program before doing this.

 1 Type import pgzrun at the very top of your program and
   pgzrun.go() at the very end. The entire code for your game                  2 ToRunrunmenu
                                                                                          the game in IDLE go to the
                                                                                              and click Run Module,
     should now sit between these two lines.                                        or just press the F5 key.

              This should now be the
              first line of your program.
                                                                                      Run
 import pgzrun
                                                                                        Python Shell
 def draw():
                                                                                        Check Module
     screen.draw.text("Hello", topleft=(10, 10))
 pgzrun.go()                                                                            Run Module...           F5

                                               This should now be the
                                               last line of your program.


       IMPORTANT!
 Fix mistakes
 If nothing happens when you run one of your programs, or if you
 get an error message—don’t panic! It’s normal to experience                        I think there’s some bug
 errors (these are called “bugs”) when coding a program. If an error                 spray on pages 44–47!
 message appears, ask yourself the following questions:

 ▪ Does the code match the given example exactly?
 ▪ Have I saved the program in the right folder?
 ▪ Have I typed pgzrun correctly?
 ▪ Are Pygame and Pygame Zero installed correctly?