34             LEARNING THE BASICS


Level up
Imagine you’re creating a game that has two levels. To get
to Level 2, you need to have at least four magic snails and
a score of more than 100 points. At this point, you have                                         L2
110 points but only three magic snails. Use the shell                                            L1
window to see if you can still get to Level 2. First, create
variables for the score and number of snails collected and
assign the correct values to them. Then type the rules for
getting to Level 2 as a Boolean expression.

                                   >>> score = 110
                  Store values
                  in variables.    >>> snails = 3
                                   >>> (score > 100) and (snails >= 4)
                                   False
 This is a Boolean expression
      meaning “score greater
   than 100 and snails more                          This shows you cannot
            than or equal to 4.”                     progress to Level 2 yet.




Branching
Sometimes you need to make decisions when
playing a game. Should you turn right to
investigate the library or turn left to look at
the kitchen? Computer programs often contain
code that runs only in certain situations. This
means the computer makes decisions about
which parts of the code to run.




                                                           ◁ Eye on the ball
                                                           Imagine you’re playing a soccer game and you need to
                                                           decide which way to aim the ball at the goal. You could
                                                           ask yourself, “Is the goalkeeper near the left side of the
                                                           goal?” If he is, you aim at the right side of the goal. If
                                                           he isn’t, you aim left. In Python, the different routes
                                                           through a program lead to different blocks of code. The
                                                           computer uses a Boolean expression, or a condition, to
                                                           decide which blocks to run.