38            LEARNING THE BASICS

                                                               How it works
                                                               robots[index] and colors[index] both use the value
                                                               of index to decide which item in their list to print.
                                                               Since index is set to 0 to begin with, both lists will
                                                               start with the first item—remember the first position
                                                               in Python lists is always 0, not 1. Since Bing is at
                                                               position 0 of the list robots and red is at position 0
                                                               of the list colors, that means Bing is red. Each time
                                                               the loop runs, it adds 1 to index, moving each list
                                                               onto the next item, so Bleep will be orange and
                                                               Bloop will be purple. The loop will continue until
                                                               it reaches the end of the lists.


“While” loops                                                                    Dude, when are
Sometimes, while coding a program, you                                            we supposed
might not know exactly how many times                                               to stop?

you want a loop to repeat. Don’t worry! In
this case, you can use a while loop.

Loop condition
A while loop includes a question whose answer can either
be True or False. This is called a loop condition. The while
loop will only start if the answer to the loop condition is
True. Imagine you are playing a game where a castle is
guarded by a dragon that checks if you have the magic
key. “Do you have the magic key?” would be the loop                            EXPERT TIPS
condition and the castle would be the loop body. If you
have the magic key, the loop condition is True and you                   Indentation error
can enter the castle. But if you don’t have the key, the
loop condition is False, so you can’t get into the loop!                 Just like the for loop, the code in
                                                                         the body of a while loop must be
                                                                         four spaces further in than the line
                                                                         starting the loop. If you don’t do this,
                                                                         Python will show an error message
                                                                         saying “unexpected indent.”
                                      Nobody enters without
                                         the magic key!
                                                                           SyntaxError


                                                                                         unexpected indent



                                                                                                  OK