132        BALLOON FLIGHT


      EXPERT TIPS
File handling
In Balloon Flight, you’ve used a .txt file to store
the high scores. A file like this can be opened and
assigned to a variable. The main functions that
you need to handle the file are open(), read(),
and write().




▷ open() takes two parameters, the file name
                                                              file = open("names.txt", "r")
and the “mode,”, which tells Python what you
want to do with the file. There are four modes in
                                                               Name of           Mode
Python: r for reading, w for writing, a for adding
                                                                the file
to the end of a file, and r+ for reading and writing.


▽ Use the read() function to read an entire file.            ▽ You can also just read a single line, rather
                                                             than the whole file.
 names = file.read()
                                                              name = file.readline()


▽ You can even add all the lines to a list.

 lines = []
                                                             ▽ Now use the write() function to write to a file.

 for line in file:
                                                              file = open("names.txt", "w")
      lines.append(line)
                                                              file.write("Martin")



▽ When you’re finished with a file, you should               ▽ If you forget to close a file after using it,
close it to tell the program you are done with it.           some of the data may not get written to it.
                                                             Use the with statement to stop this from
 file.close()                                                happening. This statement opens the file and
                                                             automatically closes it when it has finished
                                                             running the body of the with statement.
                                   It’s time to close. Are
                                   you sure you’re done?      with open("names.txt", "r") as file:
                                                                   name = file.readline()


                                                                                         Body of the function.