GAME PROGRESS                                                   100%      153

Hacks and tweaks                                                                   It’s you against
                                                                                        me now!
You can play around with the code to
make the game even more interesting.
But only if you’ve got enough energy
left after all that dancing!


    Can you give me
        a hand?



                                                               △ Play against a friend!
                                                               You can play this game against a friend. Change the
                                                               code so that all the odd-number sequences add to
△ Create your own character                                    player 1’s score, and the even-number ones add
                                                               to player 2’s score. It should show both scores at the
Make your own dancer by using the 8-bit editors available
                                                               top of the screen, and must also display a message
online, or use the additional images provided in the Python
                                                               that tells which player needs to play next, just before
Games Resource Pack. You could have more than four dance
                                                               the countdown begins. Add some code to the
moves to make more interesting and harder sequences. Just
                                                               on_key_up() function so that one player uses the
add some code under the on_key_up() function in Step 17
                                                               keys W, A, S, and D to enter their moves, while the
to assign keys to each of the extra moves.
                                                               the other uses the Up, Left, Down, and Right keys.




                                                                                              Shuffle mode is
                                                                                               my favorite!



 if (rounds % 3 == 0):
      dance_length = dance_length + 1


△ A longer dance
You can make the game more challenging. Each time you
complete three sequences, increase the dance_length by one.    △ Change the music
To find out how many rounds have been completed, divide        You can change the game music by downloading
the number of sequences danced by three. If the remainder is   audio files from www.creativecommons.org.
zero, then three sequences have been successfully completed    Remember to look for the .ogg format. You
since the last check, so add 1 to dance_length. You can use    don’t have to pay for the music, but you should
Python’s modulo operator to work out the remainder. Modulo     acknowledge the creator in your game by adding
is written using the % symbol, so 4 % 3 will give you the      a line of code that displays the name of the track
remainder on dividing 4 by 3.                                  and its creators on the “GAME OVER!” screen.